README.md, before:

# Common visualization UI fragments

This library contains a number of user interface fragments to be used in 
visualization based on [Data-Driven Documents](https://d3js.org/).

## Installation

Install the fragments using `npm install --save @gros/visualization-ui`, then 
use them in your visualization sources with
```js
import {navigation, spinner} from '@gros/visualization-ui';
```

This requires that your visualization is built via 
[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) or some other dependency bundler that 
supports rewriting ES2015 or later syntax.

## Overview

The library provides two objects: `navigation` and `spinner`. These objects 
must be instantiated with `new` and can be provided an object of configuration 
options. All modules have the option `container` which defines a query selector 
for an element to insert the fragment into.

### Navigation

Create a navigation bar to switch between view for different selections. The 
URL state is changed via the location hash, which is also checked on startup.
Multiple navigation objects can exist concurrently if a unique `prefix` is 
given to each of them. By default, the first item in the navigation is 
selected, but this can be overridden by returning `true` in `setCurrentItem`, 
in which case nothing is selected if an unknown location hash is set at start.

Setup:

```js
const projectsList = ['BAR', 'BAZ', 'FOO'];
const projectsNavigation = new navigation({
    container: '#navigation',
    prefix: 'project_',
    setCurrentItem: (project, hasProject) => {
        if (!hasProject) {
            console.log('An unknown project was selected: ' + project);
        }
        else {
            console.log('Selected project: ' + project);
        }
        return hasProject;
    },
    addElement: (element) => {
        element.text(d => `Project ${d}`);
    }
})
projectsNavigation.start(projectsList);

location.hash = '#project_FOO'; // Select the third project
location.hash = '#FOO'; // Not handled
location.hash = '#project_QUX'; // Unknown project selected
```

### Spinner

Create a loading spinner which can be shown until the data is fully loaded.

Setup:
```js
import * as d3 from 'd3';
const loadingSpinner = new spinner({
    container: '#container',
    id: 'loading-spinner',
    width: d3.select('#container').node().clientWidth,
    height: 100,
    startAngle: 220
});
loadingSpinner.start();

loadingSpinner.stop();
```

## License

The visualization fragments library is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License.

Commit message:

README: Add badges and development information

README.md, after:

# Common visualization UI fragments

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@gros/visualization-ui.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gros/visualization-ui)
[![Build 
Status](https://travis-ci.org/ICTU/gros-visualization-ui.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ICTU/gros-visualization-ui)

This library contains a number of user interface fragments to be used in 
visualization based on [Data-Driven Documents](https://d3js.org/).

## Installation

Install the fragments using `npm install --save @gros/visualization-ui`, then 
use them in your visualization sources with
```js
import {navigation, spinner} from '@gros/visualization-ui';
```

This requires that your visualization is built via 
[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) or some other dependency bundler that 
supports rewriting ES2015 or later syntax.

## Overview

The library provides two objects: `navigation` and `spinner`. These objects 
must be instantiated with `new` and can be provided an object of configuration 
options. All modules have the option `container` which defines a query selector 
for an element to insert the fragment into.

### Navigation

Create a navigation bar to switch between view for different selections. The 
URL state is changed via the location hash, which is also checked on startup.
Multiple navigation objects can exist concurrently if a unique `prefix` is 
given to each of them. By default, the first item in the navigation is 
selected, but this can be overridden by returning `true` in `setCurrentItem`, 
in which case nothing is selected if an unknown location hash is set at start.

Setup:

```js
const projectsList = ['BAR', 'BAZ', 'FOO'];
const projectsNavigation = new navigation({
    container: '#navigation',
    prefix: 'project_',
    setCurrentItem: (project, hasProject) => {
        if (!hasProject) {
            console.log('An unknown project was selected: ' + project);
        }
        else {
            console.log('Selected project: ' + project);
        }
        return hasProject;
    },
    addElement: (element) => {
        element.text(d => `Project ${d}`);
    }
})
projectsNavigation.start(projectsList);

location.hash = '#project_FOO'; // Select the third project
location.hash = '#FOO'; // Not handled
location.hash = '#project_QUX'; // Unknown project selected
```

### Spinner

Create a loading spinner which can be shown until the data is fully loaded.

Setup:
```js
import * as d3 from 'd3';
const loadingSpinner = new spinner({
    container: '#container',
    id: 'loading-spinner',
    width: d3.select('#container').node().clientWidth,
    height: 100,
    startAngle: 220
});
loadingSpinner.start();

loadingSpinner.stop();
```

## Development

- The repository can be found on 
  [GitHub](https://github.com/ICTU/gros-visualization-ui).
- [Travis](https://travis-ci.org/ICTU/gros-visualization-ui) is used to run 
  unit tests.
- You can perform local tests using `npm test`.
- We publish releases to 
  [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gros/visualization-ui).

## License

The visualization fragments library is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License.
